PORT-14000 Add Task Manager AI agent setup guide (#2187)
port-labs/port-docs: docs/guides/all/setup-task-manager-ai-agent.md

You can interact with the Task Manager agent in two ways:
1. **Direct message** the Port AI Assistant
2. **Mention** the app in any channel it's invited to

When you send a message, the app will:
1. Open a thread
2. Respond with the agent's answer

Example queries:
```markdown
@Port task-manager What tasks are assigned to me?
@Port task-manager How many critical incidents occurred this week?
@Port task-manager Show me all PRs waiting for my review
```

:::tip  Effective Slack interactions
- Always include "task-manager" in your message to target this specific agent
- Send follow-up messages in the same thread and mention the app again
- Keep conversations focused on task-related topics
- Limit threads to five consecutive messages for optimal performance
- Start new threads for new topics or questions
:::

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Best practices

To get the most out of your Task Manager agent:

1. **Be specific in your queries**: Instead of asking "what are my tasks?", try "what are my high-priority Jira tickets?"
2. **Use context**: Include relevant information like time periods or specific services
3. **Follow up**: Use threaded conversations to drill down into specific details

> 4. **Combine sources**: Ask questions that combine information from different systems

Author: No there's no automatic discovery for that

## Possible enhancements

> You can further enhance the Task Manager setup by:

Reviewer: we can add "Check how your developers are interacting with the agent and improve it according to feedback" (link to the section in the AI agents docs)

> - **Custom metrics**: Add widgets showing task completion rates and average resolution times

Reviewer: The AI agents don't work well with metrics unless they are aggregation properties, I'm not sure I would put it here

> - **Team views**: Create team-specific dashboards with filtered task views

Reviewer: How is this related to the agent? maybe "incorporate the AI agent in team dashboards"

- **Integration expansion**: Add more data sources like GitLab or Azure DevOps

> - **Automated notifications**: Configure the agent to proactively notify about important updates

Reviewer: @kodjomiles that's perfect but useless without a guide, maybe it can be "a guide is coming soon"

> - **Custom conversation starters**: Add organization-specific queries to the conversation starters 

Reviewer: link to the AI agents docs

---
displayed_sidebar: null
description: Set up a Task Manager AI agent to help developers track and manage tasks efficiently
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs"
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem"

# Set up a Task Manager AI agent

## Overview

> This guide will walk you through setting up a Task Manager AI agent in Port.
> By the end of this guide, your developers will be able to get clear overview on their tasks through our AI chat.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide will walk you through setting up a "Task Manager" AI agent in Port.  
By the end of this guide, your developers will be able to get information about their tasks via Port's AI chat.
```

> <img src="/img/ai-agents/AIAgentTaskMangerAgentPage.png" width="100%" border="1px" />

Reviewer 2: the screenshot has some typos that look bad.
It says "ask on your tasks" instead of "ask about your tasks".

## Common use cases

> - Get a quick overview of assigned tasks and their priorities
> - Monitor pull requests waiting for review
> - Track task progress and status updates

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Get a quick overview of assigned tasks and their priorities.
- Monitor pull requests waiting for review.
- Track task progress and status updates.
```

## Prerequisites

> This guide assumes you have:

Reviewer 2: period at the end of items

> - A Port account with [AI agents feature enabled](/ai-agents/overview#access-to-the-feature)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A Port account with the [AI agents feature enabled](/ai-agents/overview#access-to-the-feature)
```

- Appropriate permissions to create and configure AI agents

## Set up data model

> To create a Task Manager AI agent in Port, we'll need to configure two main components as described in our [Build an AI agent](/ai-agents/build-an-ai-agent) guide:
> -  The data sources it will use to answer questions about tasks and pull requests
> -  The agent configuration that defines its capabilities and conversation starters

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create a Task Manager AI agent in Port, we will need to configure two main components as described in our [Build an AI agent](/ai-agents/build-an-ai-agent) guide:
-  The data sources it will use to answer questions about tasks and pull requests.
-  The agent configuration that defines its capabilities and conversation starters.
```

### Configure data source access

For this guide, we will be using **GitHub** and **Jira** as our data sources to provide comprehensive task management capabilities. 
These integrations will automatically create and configure all the necessary resources needed by the Task Manager AI agent.

> Install the following integrations to have use these data sources:

Reviewer 2: to have use?

Author: Typo to have access

- [Port's GitHub app](/build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/git/github/) for pull requests and code changes
- [Jira integration](/build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/project-management/jira/) for task and issue tracking

:::info Optional tools
While this guide uses GitHub and Jira, you can choose tools that best fit your organization's needs. 
For example:
- GitLab or Azure DevOps instead of GitHub
- Opsgenie instead of PagerDuty
:::

### Create the agent configuration

> 1. Go to the [AI Agents](https://app.getport.io/_ai_agents) page of your portal

Reviewer 2: period at the end of list items

Author: Noted
